Wikimedia Foundation Languages: English · العربية · 中文 · Français · Español Skip to content Skip to navigation Wikimedia Foundation Imagine a world in which every single human being can freely share in the sum of all knowledge. Wikimedia Foundation Wikimedia Foundation Search Search Donate Now MENU Our Work Research Advocacy Technology News Participate Support About Stell dir eine Welt vor, in der jeder einzelne Mensch frei an der Summe allen Wissens teilhaben kann. The non-profit Wikimedia Foundation provides the essential infrastructure for free knowledge. We host Wikipedia, the free online encyclopedia, created and edited by volunteers around the world, as well as many other vital community projects. We welcome anyone who shares our vision to join us in collecting and sharing knowledge that fully represents human diversity. Research We conduct our own research and partner with researchers worldwide to address change in society and technology. More about research Technology From site reliability to machine learning, our open-source technology makes Wikipedia faster, more reliable, and more accessible worldwide. More about technology Advocacy We fight to protect everyone’s right to access free and open knowledge. More about advocacy NEWS — الأخبار See what we have been up to We do not support the EU Copyright Directive in its current form. Here’s why you shouldn’t either. 28 February 2019 After a long legislative process, the final text of the EU Copyright Directive was cemented last week as trilogue negotiations between the EU Commision, Parliament, and Council came to a close. Now that the final text has been made available, with only a yes-no vote in Parliament standing in the way of its implementation, Wikimedia…. Leading with Wikipedia: A brand proposal for 2030 26 February 2019 A few months ago, people across the world were asked “What is Wikimedia?” Almost no one answered correctly. But while “Wikimedia” may not be widely recognized outside our movement, there is a clear way to use our existing brands to better bring in the billions of people who have yet to join us in our…. Projects — 項目 Collaborative projects are the core of the Wikimedia movement. Our volunteers build tools, share photos, write articles, and are working to connect all the knowledge that exists. See all projects Wikipedia Free encyclopedia written in 300 languages by volunteers around the world. Wikimedia Commons The world's largest free-to-use library of illustrations, photos, drawings, videos and music. PARTICIPATE — شارك Wikimedians are heroes of free knowledge. Vitor Mazuco Editor since April 2009, Wikimedia community Felix Nartey Editor since 2012, Wikimedia community Christine Meyer Editor since 2007, Wikimedia community Throughout history, knowledge has been controlled by a powerful few. Wikipedia needs knowledge from all languages and cultures . The internet has become the default for accessing information—women, people of color, and the global south remain underrepresented. We invite you to help correct history. Join the movement 200,000+ editors contribute to Wikimedia projects every month 47+ million media files on Wikimedia Commons 1+ billion unique devices access Wikimedia projects every month KEY INFORMATION — POINTS CLÉS Things to know Wikimedia projects belong to everyone You made it. It is yours to use. For free. That means you can use it, adapt it, or share what you find on Wikimedia sites . Just do not write your own bio , or copy/paste it into your homework. We respect your data We do not sell your email address or any of your personal information to third parties. More information about our privacy practices are available at the Wikimedia Foundation privacy policy , donor privacy policy , and data retention guidelines . People like you keep Wikipedia accurate Readers verify the facts . Articles are collaboratively created and edited by a community of volunteers using reliable sources , so no single person or company owns a Wikipedia article. The Wikimedia Foundation does not write or edit, but others can help . Not all wikis are Wikimedia The word “ wiki ” refers to a website built using collaborative editing software. Hundreds of organizations and projects with no affiliation with Wikipedia or the Wikimedia Foundation also use the term, including wikiHow and WikiEducator. Wikimedia has nothing to do with Wikileaks and never did. Although both use the term “wiki” in their name, they have always been completely separate and unaffiliated. Help us unlock the world’s knowledge. As a nonprofit, Wikipedia and our related free knowledge projects are powered primarily through donations. Donate Connect — Échanger Stay up-to-date about the Wikimedia Foundation Get email updates Subscribe to news about ongoing projects and initiatives. Email address This mailing list is powered by MailChimp. The Wikimedia Foundation will handle your personal information in accordance with this site's privacy policy. Subscribe Contact a human Questions about the Wikimedia Foundation or our projects? Get in touch with our team. Contact Follow Facebook @Wikimedia Photo credits CEEMeeting2016_Armenia_Globe_26 AWang (WMF) CC-BY-SA 4.0 Wikimedia Conference 2017 Jason Krüger/Wikimedia Deutschland e.V. CC BY-SA 4.0 Papaul_Tshibamba-3 Victor Grigas CC BY SA 3.0 SOPA protest in Midtown NYC Zachary McCune CC BY-SA 4.0 A history of all nations from the earliest times Internet Archive Book Images Public domain Wikipedia logo Nohat; Paullusmagnus; Wikimedia CC-BY-SA 3.0 Optic Projection fig 89 McAllister Public domain Wikimedia Commons logo - white Reidab; User:Grunt; 3247 Public domain Vitor Mazuco Matthew (WMF) CC BY-SA 3.0 Felix Nartey Ruby Mizrahi CC SA 3.0 Sesame Street Spaghetti Space Chase Walter Lim from Singapore CC BY 2.0 Lighting through the ages Maurice Dessertenne Public domain Art+Feminism Wikipedia edit-a-thon Jens Mohr CC BY-SA 3.0 The Wikimedia Foundation is the nonprofit organization that supports Wikipedia, the other Wikimedia free knowledge projects, and our mission of free knowledge for every single person. Careers Contact Press Twitter Facebook Wikimedia projects Wikipedia Wikibooks Wikiversity Wikinews Wiktionary Wikisource Wikiquote Wikivoyage Wikimedia Commons Wikidata Wikispecies MediaWiki Movement affiliates Wikimedia Chapters Wikimedia Thematic Organizations Wikimedia User Groups Terms of Use Privacy Policy Disclaimers Cookie Statement Except where otherwise noted, the content of this site is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported license . Powered by WordPress.com VIP. Automattic Privacy Notice .