Technology – Wikimedia Foundation Skip to content Skip to navigation Wikimedia Foundation Wikimedia Foundation Search Search Donate Now MENU Our Work Research Advocacy Technology News Participate Support About News Category: Technology Share Foundation MediaWiki Technology Partnerships make it possible: Behind our role in Google Code-in 2018 By Sarah Rodlund 20 February 2019 Wikimedia’s Developer Advocacy Team exists to support the staff and volunteer software developers and technologists who ensure that the free knowledge on Wikipedia and its sister projects is always available and accessible to anyone with an internet connection. Developer Advocates work to grow the movement’s technical communities by coordinating participation in hackathons and technical outreach…. Communications Foundation Technology Victoria Coleman steps down as Wikimedia’s Chief Technology Officer By Wikimedia Foundation 6 February 2019 The Wikimedia Foundation, the non-profit that supports the free knowledge platform Wikipedia, today announces that Victoria Coleman has stepped down from her role as Chief Technology Officer. “Victoria joined us two years ago with the mandate to expand our system redundancies and refine our approach to technical program operations. I appreciate all her contributions and…. Communications Technology Wikipedia You can now use Google Translate to translate articles on Wikipedia By Runa Bhattacharjee and Pau Giner 9 January 2019 Studies estimate that there are more than 7,000 languages spoken around the world. Wikipedia exists in about 300 of them. That’s about 4 percent of some of the world’s languages documenting some of the world’s knowledge. Consider the Arabic language. With more than 420 million speakers, it’s one of the most widely spoken languages in…. Affiliates Technology Many faces of Wikibase: Lingua Libre makes [ˈlæŋgwəʤəz] audible By Jens Ohlig 14 December 2018 Languages and multilinguality have always been an important part of the Wikimedia projects. After all, Wikimedia projects are available in over 300 languages. But most of these languages are accessible as a form of knowledge of their own only in their written form. Lingua Libre aims to change that by making the sound of a…. Affiliates Technology Eureka! A new visual interface for specialized searches By Johanna Strodt 13 December 2018 With over five million articles, finding the exact Wikipedia article you want can sometimes feel like you’re searching for the proverbial needle in the haystack. That’s why if you go and search the world’s largest encyclopedia, you will see a new interface that provides several common search terms. No longer will people looking for their…. Technology The anatomy of search Wikipedia The anatomy of search: The root of the problem By Trey Jones 28 November 2018 A galloping overview As we have done before, let’s get a bird’s-eye view of the parts of the search process: text comes in and gets processed and stored in a database (called an index); a user submits a query; documents that match the query are retrieved from the index, ranked based on how well they…. Foundation Technology Wikimedia Foundation collaborates with two initiatives: Mozilla’s OSSN and TeachingOpenSource’s POSSE By Srishti Sethi and Sarah Rodlund 12 October 2018 We’re always looking for ways to strengthen the open source ecosystem. Over the past two months, the Developer Advocacy team at the Wikimedia Foundation collaborated with two open source initiatives: Mozilla’s Open Source Student Network (OSSN) and TeachingOpenSource.org’s Professors’ Open Source Software Experience  (TOS and POSSE, respectively). OSSN is designed to bring more students into open…. Foundation Technology You can trial content translation (version two!) right now By Amir E. Aharoni 30 September 2018 On International Translation Day, we are opening up early access to version two of the content translation tool, which simplifies the process of translating Wikipedia articles for Wikimedia’s volunteer translators. First released in January 2015, more than 350,000 Wikipedia articles have been created using the tool. Content translation’s second version, previewed last April, is a…. Technology The anatomy of search The anatomy of search: Variation under nature By Trey Jones 13 September 2018 A galloping overview Let’s first get a bird’s-eye view of the parts of the search process: text comes in and gets processed and stored in a database (called an index); a user submits a query; documents that match the query are retrieved from the index, ranked based on how well they match the query, and…. Technology Introducing global preferences across Wikimedia wikis By Niharika Kohli 6 September 2018 There are a lot of Wikimedia wikis. Wikipedia is the best-known of them all, but there’s also Commons, Wikiquote, Wikisource, Wiktionary, and more. Also, each of these sites is available in multiple languages. Wikipedia, for example, has nearly 300 language editions. The newest launched just this week. Until this month, each wiki and language version…. 1 2 3 … 7 Older Scroll Arrow The Wikimedia Foundation is the nonprofit organization that supports Wikipedia, the other Wikimedia free knowledge projects, and our mission of free knowledge for every single person. Careers Contact Press Twitter Facebook Wikimedia projects Wikipedia Wikibooks Wikiversity Wikinews Wiktionary Wikisource Wikiquote Wikivoyage Wikimedia Commons Wikidata Wikispecies MediaWiki Movement affiliates Wikimedia Chapters Wikimedia Thematic Organizations Wikimedia User Groups Terms of Use Privacy Policy Disclaimers Cookie Statement Except where otherwise noted, the content of this site is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported license . Powered by WordPress.com VIP. Automattic Privacy Notice .