Research – Wikimedia Foundation Languages: English · العربية · 中文 · Français · Español Skip to content Skip to navigation Wikimedia Foundation Wikimedia Foundation Search Search Donate Now MENU Our Work Research Advocacy Technology News Participate Support About Research We find ways to make Wikimedia better. Our goal is to make Wikimedia sites more useful for people seeking knowledge across the globe. Research helps us live up to our mission. We turn research questions into opportunities to empower new readers and contributors. We use research-backed insights to inform new technologies, products, and programs. We partner with researchers around the world to better understand knowledge making and sharing. Building a positive community culture Harassment is a pervasive issue on the internet—even on Wikipedia. We’re working to understand and combat harassment in Wikimedia projects and discussion spaces. Improving sources and citations Verifiable citations are critical to open knowledge projects like Wikipedia. We’re building an open repository of sources to make it easier to manage citations. Understanding reader behavior Every second 6,000 people visit Wikipedia. We want to know why. Our research aims to understand their motivations and needs so we can identify opportunities to improve. Increasing editor diversity Wikimedia is a global movement but participation has been easier for some users than others. We are partnering with communities to understand why. With everyone’s help we can increase editor diversity across our projects. Helping new editors Learning how to contribute to Wikimedia projects can be complex. We worked with new editors in South Korea and the Czech Republic to understand why they edit and how we could make it easier. Protecting the open internet The law should allow internet platforms to stay out of editorial decisions so that people can share and speak freely. We research how policies affect the way information is shared online . Partners help us tackle challenging research projects. We work with researchers from institutions such as EPFL, Cornell University, Google Jigsaw, Stanford University, and the University of Minnesota. Meet our collaborators 40 million articles across nearly 300 languages on Wikipedia 6,000 views per second across Wikimedia sites 47 million pieces of media in Commons, and counting Connect — Conecta Stay up-to-date about the Wikimedia Foundation Get email updates Subscribe to news about ongoing projects and initiatives. Email address This mailing list is powered by MailChimp. The Wikimedia Foundation will handle your personal information in accordance with this site's privacy policy. Subscribe Contact our Research team Questions about the Wikimedia Foundation's research work? Get in touch with our Research team. Contact Follow Facebook @WikiResearch NEWS — 新聞 Research directions towards the Wikimedia 2030 strategy 14 February 2019 The Wikimedia Foundation’s Research team has published a set of white papers that outline our plans and priorities for the next 5 years. These white papers, which were developed collaboratively by all members of the team, reflect our thinking about the kind of research that will be necessary to further the 2030 Wikimedia strategic direction…. Mitigating biases in artificial intelligences—the Wikipedian way 10 October 2018 The great potential of AI: Scaling wiki-work At Wikimedia, AIs help us support quality control work, task routing, and other critical infrastructures for maintaining Wikipedia and other Wikimedia wikis. To make it easier to support wiki-work with AIs, we built and maintain ORES, an open AI service that provides several types of machine predictions to…. ELSEWHERE IN WIKIMEDIA — مكان أخر في ويكيميديا See our work in the wild Wiki Workshop The annual research forum brings together researchers exploring all aspects of Wikipedia and other Wikimedia projects. Wikimedia Research Showcase We publicly share research findings and developments on the third Wednesday of every month at 11:30 Pacific Time. Help us unlock the world’s knowledge. As a nonprofit, Wikipedia and our related free knowledge projects are powered primarily through donations. Donate Photo credits Wikimedia Conference 2018 Jason Krüger/Wikimedia Deutschland e.V. CC BY-SA 4.0 Art+Feminism edit-a-thon Jens Mohr CC BY-SA 3.0 Lighting through the ages Maurice Dessertenne Public domain Art+Feminism Wikipedia edit-a-thon Jens Mohr CC BY-SA 3.0 The Wikimedia Foundation is the nonprofit organization that supports Wikipedia, the other Wikimedia free knowledge projects, and our mission of free knowledge for every single person. Careers Contact Press Twitter Facebook Wikimedia projects Wikipedia Wikibooks Wikiversity Wikinews Wiktionary Wikisource Wikiquote Wikivoyage Wikimedia Commons Wikidata Wikispecies MediaWiki Movement affiliates Wikimedia Chapters Wikimedia Thematic Organizations Wikimedia User Groups Terms of Use Privacy Policy Disclaimers Cookie Statement Except where otherwise noted, the content of this site is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported license . Powered by WordPress.com VIP. Automattic Privacy Notice .