How to contribute - MediaWiki How to contribute From MediaWiki.org Jump to navigation Jump to search Translate this page Other languages: Afrikaans • ‎ Bahasa Indonesia • ‎ Bahasa Melayu • ‎ Basa Banyumasan • ‎ Basa Sunda • ‎ Bân-lâm-gú • ‎ Cymraeg • ‎ Deutsch • ‎ English • ‎ Esperanto • ‎ Hawaiʻi • ‎ Kreyòl ayisyen • ‎ Limburgs • ‎ Lëtzebuergesch • ‎ Malagasy • ‎ Napulitano • ‎ Nederlands • ‎ Ripoarisch • ‎ Scots • ‎ Soomaaliga • ‎ Tagalog • ‎ Taqbaylit • ‎ Tiếng Việt • ‎ Türkçe • ‎ Volapük • ‎ Zazaki • ‎ aragonés • ‎ asturianu • ‎ azərbaycanca • ‎ bosanski • ‎ català • ‎ dansk • ‎ español • ‎ français • ‎ galego • ‎ hrvatski • ‎ interlingua • ‎ isiXhosa • ‎ isiZulu • ‎ italiano • ‎ kurdî • ‎ la .lojban. • ‎ lea faka-Tonga • ‎ lietuvių • ‎ magyar • ‎ norsk bokmål • ‎ norsk nynorsk • ‎ occitan • ‎ oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча • ‎ polski • ‎ português • ‎ português do Brasil • ‎ română • ‎ sardu • ‎ shqip • ‎ sicilianu • ‎ slovenčina • ‎ suomi • ‎ svenska • ‎ čeština • ‎ Ελληνικά • ‎ башҡортса • ‎ беларуская (тарашкевіца)‎ • ‎ български • ‎ македонски • ‎ русский • ‎ српски / srpski • ‎ тоҷикӣ • ‎ українська • ‎ ייִדיש • ‎ עברית • ‎ ئۇيغۇرچە / Uyghurche • ‎ اردو • ‎ العربية • ‎ تۆرکجه • ‎ سرائیکی • ‎ سنڌي • ‎ فارسی • ‎ پښتو • ‎ کوردی • ‎ अङ्गिका • ‎ नेपाली • ‎ मराठी • ‎ मैथिली • ‎ हिन्दी • ‎ অসমীয়া • ‎ বাংলা • ‎ মেইতেই লোন্ • ‎ ਪੰਜਾਬੀ • ‎ ଓଡ଼ିଆ • ‎ தமிழ் • ‎ తెలుగు • ‎ ಕನ್ನಡ • ‎ മലയാളം • ‎ සිංහල • ‎ ไทย • ‎ ဖၠုံလိက် • ‎ မြန်မာဘာသာ • ‎ მარგალური • ‎ ქართული • ‎ ትግርኛ • ‎ አማርኛ • ‎ ភាសាខ្មែរ • ‎ 中文 • ‎ 吴语 • ‎ 文言 • ‎ 日本語 • ‎ 粵語 • ‎ 한국어 Get involved Do you love software freedom and open source communities ? Do you like the MediaWiki software, Wikipedia , or any other Wikimedia sites ? Then, contribute your skills here and learn from other contributors. This page will help you get started by providing an overview of areas where you can get involved. Web APIs The content of all Wikimedia projects is released under free licenses. Write code to access, remix and grow this immense pool of free knowledge. Follow the tutorial to get started with the API , available on all MediaWiki wikis, and other APIs for content and Wikidata. Other open data sources , including XML and SQL dumps , are also available. Software Development Our code is all free and open source. Choose a project , provide a patch, and fix a task! Wikimedia projects use a variety of languages such as PHP and JavaScript in MediaWiki and its extensions , Lua (in Templates ), CSS/LESS (in skins etc), Objective-C, Swing and Java (in Mobile Apps and Kiwix ), Python (in Pywikibot ), C++ (in Huggle ), or C# (in AWB ). Create bots to process content and host your tools on Toolforge . Hack on mobile apps or on desktop applications. Or help Site Reliability Engineering maintain the server configuration . Testing Help improve the quality of our projects through automated Browser testing , PHPUnit testing and Continuous Integration . Report your first bug or help with existing bug reports . Ambassadors As a Tech ambassador , help other Wikimedians with technical issues, relay Tech News to inform users about what is going to impact them, and join the ambassadors' group and the mailing list to act as a bridge between developers and your local wiki. Documentation English writers can improve the MediaWiki documentation , other essential support pages and, in fact, any page of this website. Translation If you are fluent in a language other than English you can join the effort by translating this website and the MediaWiki software . Support Help users and developers looking for answers at the support desk or the MediaWiki communication and social media channels. Design Help apply the Wikimedia design principles in projects looking for UX feedback. Meet up Meet other community members online or in person . Icon credits More helpful information Communication There are several ways you can get into contact with the Wikimedia community. Feel free to ask your developer questions on https://discourse-mediawiki.wmflabs.org . For real-time communication use #wikimedia-dev connect on IRC (Internet Relay Chat) . There are also several e-mail lists for discussion of Wikimedia software. A complete list is available. You can also follow and share Wikimedia news across your social network . You can also subscribe to Tech News to receive a weekly summary on your user talk page of recent software changes, without technical jargon. Editing and discussing in MediaWiki If you have not used MediaWiki before: Register your user account on mediawiki.org . Learn how to Edit wiki pages with VisualEditor or editing the source . Feel free to edit your public user page . Introduce yourself. You may use the User Info Template . Learn more reading the Wikipedia instructions . Check Help:Navigation . You can discuss the content of each page in its related Discussion page. You can communicate with users by adding a public message in their discussion pages. Learn more at Help:Talk pages . Retrieved from " https://www.mediawiki.org/w/index.php?title=How_to_contribute&oldid=3096040 " Categories : MediaWiki development MediaWiki.org website New contributors Navigation menu Personal tools English Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Page Discussion Variants Views Read View source View history More Search Navigation Main page Get MediaWiki Get extensions Tech blog Contribute Support User help FAQ Technical manual Support desk Communication Development Bug tracker Code repository Code docs Statistics Wikimedia technology Wikimedia audiences MediaWiki.org Community portal Recent changes Translate content Random page Current issues Sandbox Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Tools What links here Related changes Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other languages Add links This page was last edited on 16 February 2019, at 01:46. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License ;
additional terms may apply.
See Terms of Use for details. Privacy policy About MediaWiki.org Disclaimers Code of Conduct Developers Cookie statement Mobile view