Technology – Wikimedia Foundation Languages: English · العربية · 中文 · Français · Español Skip to content Skip to navigation Wikimedia Foundation Wikimedia Foundation Search Search Donate Now MENU Our Work Research Advocacy Technology News Participate Support About Technology We keep Wikimedia projects fast, reliable, and available to all. From hosting Wikipedia to creating edit-checking artificial intelligence (AI), we design and build the open-source technology that powers Wikimedia projects. Community volunteers and Foundation technologists collaborate on MediaWiki, the platform that makes sharing free knowledge possible. Hosting the world’s knowledge Wikipedia is the fifth most-visited websites in the world, with more than 6,000 visits every second. Our infrastructure keeps it online . Over the last year, we delivered an uptime of 99.97% (according to independent monitoring) across all project sites. Saving data costs for readers More than half of Wikimedia’s visitors connect from mobile devices. But high mobile data costs across Africa, Latin America, and Asia can make accessing Wikipedia expensive. That is why we redesigned our apps and sites to be up to 51% less data intensive. Assisting human collaboration with machine learning Anyone can edit Wikipedia, and it can be challenging to maintain quality control. That is why we made ORES, an artificial intelligence service that automatically identifies potentially problematic content as soon as it appears, advising editors if changes are needed. Helping NASA NASA’s internal wiki for collaboration and documentation is built on MediaWiki just like Wikipedia. We create MediaWiki—open-source wiki software that is free and available for anyone. Mentoring new developers To help build a more diverse and inclusive technical community, the Wikimedia Foundation funds, supports, and mentors new developers and underrepresented groups in tech. Growing a volunteer developer community Over half of the commits made to our codebase are pushed by volunteers. We actively support a thriving volunteer technology community , with grants, events, and an open collaboration tool . Write code that helps bring free knowledge to everybody. Want to use your coding skills for good? Our global technical community always welcomes new volunteer contributors of all levels. We offer hundreds of software projects in many different areas. Contribute your coding skills 99.97% uptime delivered across all Wikimedia sites during 2017 1 billion+ unique devices access Wikimedia sites every month 6,000 views per second across Wikimedia sites Connect — اتصل Get updates on Wikimedia Foundation's technology efforts Get email updates Subscribe to news about ongoing projects and initiatives. Email address This mailing list is powered by MailChimp. The Wikimedia Foundation will handle your personal information in accordance with this site's privacy policy. Subscribe Connect with our technology teams Questions about MediaWiki or the Wikimedia Foundation's technology efforts? Get in touch with our developer community. Contact Follow Facebook @Wikimedia NEWS — NOTICIAS Leading with Wikipedia: A brand proposal for 2030 26 February 2019 A few months ago, people across the world were asked “What is Wikimedia?” Almost no one answered correctly. But while “Wikimedia” may not be widely recognized outside our movement, there is a clear way to use our existing brands to better bring in the billions of people who have yet to join us in our…. Partnerships make it possible: Behind our role in Google Code-in 2018 20 February 2019 Wikimedia’s Developer Advocacy Team exists to support the staff and volunteer software developers and technologists who ensure that the free knowledge on Wikipedia and its sister projects is always available and accessible to anyone with an internet connection. Developer Advocates work to grow the movement’s technical communities by coordinating participation in hackathons and technical outreach…. ELSEWHERE IN WIKIMEDIA — 在WIKIMEDIA的其他地方 Dive deeper into Wikimedia projects MediaWiki Originally created for use on Wikipedia, MediaWiki is free and open-source wiki software written in PHP. ORES The web service and API that provides machine learning as a service to flag bad edits and vandalism on Wikimedia projects. Wikipedia for Android Wikipedia at your fingertips on Android. Set your app to night reading mode or save articles to read offline. Wikipedia for iOS Wikipedia at your fingertips on iOS. Set your app to night reading mode or save articles to read offline. APIs Our API provides straightforward access to Wikimedia content and data, in machine-readable formats. Wikistats Wikistats is a public dashboard featuring data about the reach and impact of Wikimedia projects. Help us unlock the world’s knowledge. As a nonprofit, Wikipedia and our related free knowledge projects are powered primarily through donations. Donate Photo credits WikiDemocracy Event - May 2017 ZMcCune (WMF) CC BY-SA 4.0 Haeckel Trochilidae Ernst Haeckel Public Domain Lighting through the ages Maurice Dessertenne Public domain Art+Feminism Wikipedia edit-a-thon Jens Mohr CC BY-SA 3.0 The Wikimedia Foundation is the nonprofit organization that supports Wikipedia, the other Wikimedia free knowledge projects, and our mission of free knowledge for every single person. Careers Contact Press Twitter Facebook Wikimedia projects Wikipedia Wikibooks Wikiversity Wikinews Wiktionary Wikisource Wikiquote Wikivoyage Wikimedia Commons Wikidata Wikispecies MediaWiki Movement affiliates Wikimedia Chapters Wikimedia Thematic Organizations Wikimedia User Groups Terms of Use Privacy Policy Disclaimers Cookie Statement Except where otherwise noted, the content of this site is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported license . Powered by WordPress.com VIP. Automattic Privacy Notice .