News – Wikimedia Foundation Languages: English Skip to content Skip to navigation Wikimedia Foundation Wikimedia Foundation Search Search Donate Now MENU Our Work Research Advocacy Technology News Participate Support About News Advocacy Legal We do not support the EU Copyright Directive in its current form. Here’s why you shouldn’t either. By Allison Davenport 28 February 2019 After a long legislative process, the final text of the EU Copyright Directive was cemented last week as trilogue negotiations between the EU Commision, Parliament, and Council came to a close. Now that the final text has been made available, with only a yes-no vote in Parliament standing in the way of its implementation, Wikimedia…. Wikimania A theme for Wikimania 2019: Wikimedia and advancing the Sustainable Development Goals By Eric Luth 27 February 2019 Wikimania 2019 will take place on 14–18 August at Stockholm University. Hosted by Wikimedia Sweden, the conference will bring together leaders within free knowledge spaces across the world for five days of pioneering discussions on the role of Wikimedia and free knowledge in fulfilling the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) outlined by the United Nations in…. Communications Foundation Leading with Wikipedia: A brand proposal for 2030 By Zack McCune 26 February 2019 A few months ago, people across the world were asked “What is Wikimedia?” Almost no one answered correctly. But while “Wikimedia” may not be widely recognized outside our movement, there is a clear way to use our existing brands to better bring in the billions of people who have yet to join us in our…. Foundation We’re changing our password policies—Here are six rules for selecting a good password By John Bennett 25 February 2019 You may remember a time before password standards, when passwords like “password” were used. As countless news stories have shown us since, those passwords were not ideal—but the recommended solution of creating complex passwords for each website has created problems of its own.[1] Having one of your online accounts hacked can be a disruptive and…. Foundation MediaWiki Technology Partnerships make it possible: Behind our role in Google Code-in 2018 By Sarah Rodlund 20 February 2019 Wikimedia’s Developer Advocacy Team exists to support the staff and volunteer software developers and technologists who ensure that the free knowledge on Wikipedia and its sister projects is always available and accessible to anyone with an internet connection. Developer Advocates work to grow the movement’s technical communities by coordinating participation in hackathons and technical outreach…. Community Interview Research Wikipedia To bridge Peru’s digital divide, these researchers are taking Wikipedia offline By Ed Erhart 18 February 2019 For many years, the Wikimedia Foundation’s vision statement has asked us to imagine how the world would be changed if every single person on Earth had access to the “sum of all knowledge”—but because Wikipedia is a web project, only those with internet access could reach that knowledge. That’s left billions behind. Anne Nelson, who…. Communications Research Research directions towards the Wikimedia 2030 strategy By Jonathan Morgan and Dario Taraborelli 14 February 2019 The Wikimedia Foundation’s Research team has published a set of white papers that outline our plans and priorities for the next 5 years. These white papers, which were developed collaboratively by all members of the team, reflect our thinking about the kind of research that will be necessary to further the 2030 Wikimedia strategic direction…. Affiliates Events At the 2019 Wikimedia Summit, we’re putting the Wikimedia movement under the microSCOPE By Anna Rees 13 February 2019 With a new name and a strategy-focused aim, the Wikimedia Summit (formerly known as the Wikimedia Conference) kicks off next month. Around 200 participants from Wikimedia affiliates, the Wikimedia Foundation, and various committees will head to Berlin from 29–31 March to discuss the future of the Wikimedia movement. The finalized schedule will be published in…. Communications Foundation Wikimedia Foundation appoints Janeen Uzzell as Chief Operating Officer By Wikimedia Foundation 12 February 2019 The Wikimedia Foundation is excited to announce the appointment of Janeen Uzzell as Chief Operating Officer. Janeen joins the Foundation after 16 years of executive leadership at General Electric (GE), most recently as GE’s head of Women in Technology, where she worked with GE’s global CEOs to increase the number of women in technical roles…. Communications Events Friends Wikimedia Commons Wikipedia Wikisource A bunch of media just entered the public domain. Here’s why that matters. By Adora Svitak 11 February 2019 The black-and-white film flickers as a wealthy young woman, sitting on a bench in a garden, bats her eyes at the gardener’s son she is not allowed to marry. In her self-portrait, an artist wears masculine clothes against a bleak urban backdrop, dark eyes meeting the viewer’s gaze from the shadow of a broad-brimmed riding…. 1 2 3 … 39 Older Scroll Arrow Help us unlock the world’s knowledge. As a nonprofit, Wikipedia and our related free knowledge projects are powered primarily through donations. Donate Connect — Connect Stay up-to-date about the Wikimedia Foundation Get email updates Subscribe to news about ongoing projects and initiatives. Email address This mailing list is powered by MailChimp. The Wikimedia Foundation will handle your personal information in accordance with this site's privacy policy. Subscribe Contact a human Questions about the Wikimedia Foundation or our projects? Get in touch with our team. Contact Follow Facebook @Wikimedia The Wikimedia Foundation is the nonprofit organization that supports Wikipedia, the other Wikimedia free knowledge projects, and our mission of free knowledge for every single person. Careers Contact Press Twitter Facebook Wikimedia projects Wikipedia Wikibooks Wikiversity Wikinews Wiktionary Wikisource Wikiquote Wikivoyage Wikimedia Commons Wikidata Wikispecies MediaWiki Movement affiliates Wikimedia Chapters Wikimedia Thematic Organizations Wikimedia User Groups Terms of Use Privacy Policy Disclaimers Cookie Statement Except where otherwise noted, the content of this site is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported license . Powered by WordPress.com VIP. Automattic Privacy Notice .